Hello, hello, Carlton, Sebastian, David, Cody, Yannick, Phil, Jeff, welcome back to
Talk Python To Me, all of you.
Thanks for having us.
Yeah, it's...
We're here for what may be my favorite topic, for sure.
Something I spend most of my time on is web API stuff, which is awesome.
I'm so excited to have you here to give your inside look at how people should be running your framework,
at least the one that you significantly contribute to, depending on which framework we're talking about, right?
So it's going to be a lot of fun, and I'm really excited to talk about it.
However, there's an interesting fact that I've been throwing out a lot lately is that fully half of the people doing professional Python development have only been doing it for two years or less.
And some of you have been on the show.
It was maybe two years longer than that.
Let's just do a quick round of introductions for people who don't necessarily know you.
We'll go around the squares here in the screen sharing.
So Carlton, you're up first.
Oh, I get to go first.
Brilliant.
Well, I'm Carlton.
I work on the Django Red framework mostly.
I'm a former Django fellow.
I maintain a number of packages in the ecosystem.
And the last few years, I've been back to building stuff with Django rather than working on it.
So I run a build startup that's, well, we're still going.
So I'm quite excited about that.
Awesome.
How is it to be building with Django than building Django?
Oh, I'm literally having the time of my life.
I spent five years as a Django fellow working on Django.
And I just built up this backlog of things I wanted to do.
And I had no time and no capacity and no sort of nothing to work on with them.
And it's just a delight.
And every day I sit down on my computer thinking, oh, what's today?
I look at the background.
Oh, yes.
And every day a delight.
So I'm still just loving it.
That's awesome.
So more often you're appreciating your former self than cursing your former self for the way you built.
Yeah, that's an interesting one. I think we should move on before I have a chance.
All right. All right. Speaking of building with and for Sebastian, FastAPI. Hello.
Hello. Okay. Intro for the ones that don't know me. I'm Sebastian Ramirez. I created FastAPI.
Yeah, that's pretty much it. And now I have been building a company since the last two years,
FastAPI Cloud to deploy FastAPI.
So I get to drink from funny cups.
JOHN MUELLER: The world's best boss.
Amazing.
So I think you deserve to give a bit of a shout out
to FastAPI Cloud.
That's a big deal.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Yeah, it's super fun.
The idea is to make it super simple to deploy FastAPI
applications.
The idea with FastAPI was to make it very simple
to build applications, build APIs.
like get the idea from from idea to product in your record time.
That was the idea with FastAPI.
But then deploying that in many cases is just too conversant.
It's too complicated.
There are just so many things to learn.
So I wanted to bring something for people to be able to say like, hey, just one
command FastAPI deploy and we take care of the rest.
And then we and the team, I have an amazing thing that I've been able to work with.
We suffer all the cloud pain so that people don't have to deal with that.
And yeah, it's painful to build, but it's so cool to use it.
You know, like that's the part when I say like, yes, this was worth it.
When I get to use the thing myself, that is super cool.
Yeah, I'm assuming you build FastAPI Cloud with FastAPI somewhat.
Yes, yes, yes, exactly.
FastAPI Cloud runs on FastAPI Cloud.
And I get just to like now run random things in there and I'm like, yes.
Awesome.
Well, yeah, congrats to that again.
That's super cool.
David Lord, welcome.
Welcome back.
Yeah, hello.
I'm David Lord.
I'm the lead maintainer of Pallets, which is Flask, Jinja, Click, Perixote, It's Dangerous, Markup Safe, and now Pallets Eco, which is a bunch of the famous extensions for Flask that are getting community maintenance now.
I've been doing that since, I think I've been the lead maintainer since like 2019, but a maintainer since like 2017.
So it's been a while.
Yeah, that is, you know, that's been a while.
We're coming up on seven, eight years.
That's crazy.
Time flies.
It's always funny because I always feel like I've been doing it for way, way longer.
And then I look at like the actual date that I got added as a maintainer.
I'm like, well, it couldn't have been that late.
I was doing stuff before that, right?
I'm sure you're deep in Flask before you got added as a maintainer of it, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Let's say welcome to Phil Jones, since you are also on the same org.
Next.
Hey, welcome back.
Hello, yeah, I'm Phil Jones.
I am the author of Quart, which is also part of Palette.
I also work on Berkshagen and Flask and help out there.
And I've done a server called Hypercorn as well.
So a bit of interest in that part of the ecosystem.
So what is Quart for people who don't know?
So Quart is basically Flask with Async await.
And that was the idea behind it really to make it possible to do Async await.
So yeah, that's pretty much it.
If we only manage to merge them, we will.
And the goal now with Quart as part of Palettes is to eventually have it be one code base with Flask.
but given that we both have small children now we're moving a lot slower
having kids is great i have three kids productivity is not a thing that they are known to
imbue on the parents right especially in the early days i want to say phil thank you i've been
running court for a couple of my websites lately and it's been amazing nice yeah we i also use it
work we've got all our stuff in in court which is yeah it's really good fun a bit like yeah yeah
So when people, if they get, if they listen to the show or they go to the website of the
show and they're not on YouTube, then that somehow involves court.
Janek, welcome.
Hey.
Yeah, I'm Janek Nivertny.
I work on Litestar.
I just looked up how long it's been because I was curious myself.
I also had the same feeling that it's been a lot longer than, it's actually only been
three years.
Yeah.
And I also noticed something with all you guys here in the room.
I use almost all of the projects you maintain at work, which is quite nice.
We have a very big Django deployment.
We have some Flask deployments.
We have a few FastAPI deployments.
I think we have one core deployment, and we also have two Light Store deployments,
which obviously is a lot of fun to work with.
But I find it really nice actually to work with all these different things.
It's super interesting also because everything has its own niche
that it's really good at.
And even, you know, you think if you maintain a framework yourself,
you tend to always recommend it for everything.
But I noticed it's not actually true.
There's actually a few cases where I don't recommend Litestar.
recommend just use Django for this, or use Flask for that,
or use FastAPI for this, because they are quite different after all.
And I find that really interesting and nice.
And I think it's a good sign of a healthy ecosystem
if it's not just the same thing but different,
but it actually brings something very unique and different
to the table.
I think that's a great attitude.
It's very interesting.
You know, I feel like there's a lot of people who feel like
they've kind of got to pick their tech team for everything.
You know, I'm going to build a static site.
Like, well, I've got to have a Python-based static site.
Builder like, well, it's a static site.
Who cares what technology makes it turn--
you're writing Markdown, out comes HTML.
Who cares what's in the middle, for example, right?
And I feel like that's kind of a life lessons learned.
There, I did.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Cody.
Hello, hello.
Yeah, hey guys, I'm Cody Fincher.
I'm also one of the maintainers of Litestar.
I've been there just a little bit longer than Yannick.
And so it's been about four years now.
And Yannick actually teed this up perfectly
'cause I was gonna say something very similar.
I currently work for Google.
I've been there for about three and a half years now.
And we literally have every one of the frameworks
you guys just mentioned, and they're all in production.
And so one of the things that you'll see on the Litestar org
and part of the projects that we maintain
that we have these optional batteries
and most of the batteries that we have
all work with the frameworks for you guys.
And so it's nice to be able to use that stuff,
you know, regardless of what tooling you've got
or what, you know, what project it is.
And so, yeah, having that interoperability
and the ability to kind of go between the frameworks
that work the best for the right situation is crucial.
And so I'm glad you mentioned that, Yannick.
But yeah, nice to see you guys
and nice to be back on the show.
Cody, tell people what Litestar is.
I know I had both you guys and Jacob on a while ago,
but it's been a couple of years, I think.
Yeah, so, I mean, Litestar, at its core,
is really a web framework that kind of sits somewhere in between,
I'd say, Flask and FastAPI and Django.
So whereas Flask doesn't really bundle a lot of batteries,
there's a huge amount of third-party libraries and ecosystem
that's built around it that people can add into it,
but there's not really, like, for instance, a database adapter
or a database plugin or plugins for VEAT
or something like that, right?
For front end development.
And so what we have been doing is building a API framework
that is very similar in concept to FastAPI
that is also extensible.
So if you want to use the batteries, they're there for you.
But if you don't want to use them, you don't have to, right?
And so a lot of the tooling that we built for LightSolar
was birthed out of a startup that I was in
prior to joining Google.
And so having all this boilerplate
It needed somewhere to go.
And so a lot of this stuff ended up being plugins,
which is what we bundled into Litestar
so that you can kind of add in this extra functionality.
And so I know I'm getting long-winded.
It's somewhere between Django and Flask,
if you were to think about it in terms of a spectrum,
in terms of what it gives you in terms of a web framework.
But in short, it does everything that all the other guys do.
Yeah, very neat, very neat.
It's definitely a framework I admire.
Jeff Triplett, so glad you could make it.
Yeah, thanks for having me.
Yeah, I'm Jeff Triplett.
I'm out of Lawrence, Kansas.
I'm a consultant at a company called Revolution Systems.
I was on, some people know me from being on the Python Software Foundation board.
I've been off that for a few years.
As of last week, I'm the president of the Django Software Foundation.
So I've been on that board for a year.
I'm kind of a Django power user, I guess.
I've used it for about 20 years.
And I've kind of not really worked on, I don't even think I have a patch anymore in Django.
but I've done a lot with the community,
done a lot with contributing through conferences
and using utilities.
I try to promote Carleton's applications like Neapolitan.
If I like tools, Python tools in general,
I try to advocate for it.
Like Yannick, I've also used all of these applications.
Litestar, I haven't, but I have a friend
who talks about it a lot.
And so I feel like I know a lot from it.
As a consultant, we tend to go with the best tool for the job.
So I've done a little bit of FastAPI.
I worked with Flask a lot over the years.
even though we're primarily a Django shop.
It just depends on what the client needs.
Yeah, and you see a lot of different sizes of web app deployments,
so I think that's going to be an interesting angle for sure.
Yeah, absolutely.
Small ones to hundreds of servers.
We don't see it as much anymore the last four or five years,
especially with CDNs and caching.
We just don't see load like we did 10 years ago or so.
And then I also do a lot of small,
I kind of call some of them little dumb projects,
but some are just fun.
Like I've got a FastAPI WebRing that I wrote a year ago for April Fool's Day.
And for some reason, that kind of took off and people liked it, even though it was kind
of a joke.
So I started like peppering it on a bunch of sites.
And I maintain like Django packages.
I do a newsletter, Django News Newsletter.
Just kind of lots of fun stuff.
Yeah, awesome.
Well, definitely looking forward to hearing all of your opinions.
So I've got a bunch of different Your App in production topics.
I thought we could just work around and talk over.
So I thought maybe the first one is,
what would you recommend, or if you don't really
have a strong recommendation, what
would you choose for yourself to put your app
in your framework in production?
I'm thinking app servers, reverse proxies
like Nginx or Caddy.
Do you go for threaded--
try to scale out with threads.
You try to scale out with processes, you know, Docker, no Docker, Kubernetes.
What are we doing here, folks?
Carlton.
I think we'll just keep going around the circle here.
So you may get the first round of everyone.
No, I'll try to mix it up.
Okay, so I do the oldest school thing in the book.
I run Nginx as my front end.
I'll stick a WSGI server behind it with a pre-fork, you know, a few workers,
depending on CPU size, depending on the kind of requests I'm handling.
These days, in order to handle long-lived requests,
like server-sent events, that kind of WebSocket type things,
I'll run an ASGII server as a kind of sidecar.
Okay. I've been thinking about this a lot, actually.
But yeah, this is interesting.
If you're running a small site and you want long-lived requests,
just run ASGII. Just use ASGII.
Because any of the servers, Hypercorn, Uvicorn, Daphne,
Well, Grannion is the new hot kid on the bot, right?
All of those will handle your traffic, no problem.
But for me, the scaling paddles in Whiskey are so well-known
and just, like, I can do the maths on the back of the pencil.
I know exactly how to scale it up, having done it for so long.
For me, for my core application,
I would still rather use the WSGI server
and then limit the async stuff to just to the use cases
where it's particularly suited.
So we'll do that.
Process Manager, I deploy using Systemd.
If I want a container, I'll use Podman via Systemd.
It's as old school as it gets.
I'll very often run a Redis instance on local hosts for caching,
and that will be it.
And that will get me an awful long way.
Just get a bigger box.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
If you really, really, really need multiple boxes,
well, then we'll talk.
I feel like you and I are in a similar vibe.
But one thing I want to sort of throw out there to you,
but also sort of the others is,
what are we talking with databases?
Like, who's bold enough to go SQLite?
Anyone's going SQLite out there?
Yeah.
It depends, right?
It just depends on what you're doing, right?
And how many concurrent users you're going to have.
It really depends on there.
The Palette's website is running on Flask,
which I wasn't doing for a while.
I was doing a static site generator.
Then I got inspired by Andrew Godwin's static dynamic sites.
And so it loads up all these markdown files, static markdown files into a SQLite database
at runtime and then serves off of that because you can query really fast.
Oh, that's awesome.
I love it.
So yeah, that's cool.
SQLite for the balance website.
Awesome.
Also, do you have a few small apps that use SQLite and one recently that's Cody's fault
because he put me on that track
where it's running a SQLite database in the browser
because it's really, nowadays, it's quite easy to do that.
And then you can do all sorts of stuff with it,
like hook into it with DuckDB and perform some analysis.
So you don't actually need to run any sort of server at all.
You can just throw some files into Nginx and serve your data.
As long as that static, you have a super, super simple deployment.
So yeah, definitely SQLite if you can.
I like it.
I agree.
It's interesting.
Like the database probably won't go down with that.
Probably.
Let's do this by framework.
So we'll do vertical slices in the visual here.
So Jeff.
Yeah, Django, Postgres, pretty old school stack.
I think putting a CD in front of anything is just a win.
So whether you like Fastly or Cloudflare, you get a lot of mileage out of it.
You learn a lot about caching because it's kind of hard to cache Django by default.
So you get to play with curl and kind of figure out why very headers are there.
And it's a good learning experience to get through that.
I also like Coolify, which is kind of new, at least new to me and new to Michael.
We talked about this in our spare time a lot.
It's just kind of a boring service that will launch a bunch of containers for you.
There's a bunch of one-click installs.
So Postgres is a one-click.
It also does backups for you, which is really nice to have for free.
I run a couple dozen sites through it and really like it.
You can either do a hosted forum.
I don't get any money from it,
or you can run the open source version.
I do both.
I've got like a home lab that I just run stuff
using the open source version.
For five bucks a month, it's worth it to run a couple servers.
Yeah, Coolify is great.
You can just scale up.
Yeah, it's got a bunch of one-click deploy
for self-hosted SaaS things as well.
I want an analytics stack of containers
that run in its own isolated bit.
Just click here and go.
So it's, yeah.
Yeah.
One click, it's installed and you're up.
And then once you get one Django, Blast, FastAPI site working with it, and it uses like a Docker container.
Once you get that set up, it's really easy to just kind of duplicate that site, plug it in the GitHub or whatever your Git provider is.
And it's a nice experience for what normally is just R-syncing files and life's too short for that.
Yep.
All right.
Sebastian, I want to have you go last on this one
because I think you've got something pretty interesting
with FastAPI Cloud to dive into.
But let's do Litestar next.
Cody.
So I have actually bought all the way in on Gradient.
So for the ASCII server, I've actually been running Gradient
now for, I'd say, a year in production.
It's worked pretty well.
There's a couple of new things that I'm actually kind of experimenting with.
I don't know how well they're going to work out.
So I'm going to go ahead and throw this out there.
but Granian is one of the few ASI servers
that supports HTTP/2,
and it actually can do HTTP/2 clear text.
And so this is part of the next thing I'm gonna say.
Because I work for Google,
I'm actively using lots of Kubernetes and Cloud Run mainly.
And so most of the things that I deploy
are containerized on Cloud Run.
And I typically would suggest
if you're not using something like Systemd
and deploying it directly on bare metal,
then you are gonna wanna let the container
or whatever you're using to manage your processes,
manage that and spin that up.
And so I typically try to allocate, you know,
like one CPU for the container
and let the actual framework scale it up and down as needed.
Cloud Run itself has like an ingress,
like a load balancer that sits in front
that it automatically configures.
And you're required to basically serve up clear text traffic
in when you run Cloud Run.
And because now Gradient supports HTTP2
And Cloud Run supports HTTP2 clear text.
You can now serve Gradient as HTTP2 traffic.
The good thing about that is that you get an unlimited upload size.
And so there are max thresholds to what you can upload into the various cloud environments.
HTTP2 usually circumvents that or gets around it because of the way the protocol works.
And so you get additional features and functionality because of that.
So anyway, that's what I typically do.
And most of my databases are usually Postgres, AlloyDB, if it needs to be something that's on the analytical side.
So yeah, cool.
Yeah, I'm on Team Granian as well.
I think that's a super neat framework.
I had Giovanni on who's behind it a while ago.
And it seems like it's not as popular,
but it's based on Hyper from the Rust world, which
has like 130,000 projects based on it or something.
So at its core, it's still pretty battle-tested.
Yannick, how about you?
You got a variety, it sounds like.
Yeah, definitely.
There's a pretty clear split between what I do at work
and what I do outside of that.
So at work, it's Kubernetes deployments,
and we manage that pretty much the same way that Cody described.
So it's one or two processors per pod max,
so you can have Kubernetes scale it
or even manually easily scale it up.
You can just go into Kubernetes and say, okay, do me one to five more pods or whatever.
And don't have to worry.
You don't have to start calculating, whatever.
Most of the stuff we run nowadays with UVcorn, our Django deployment up until I think three months ago or so was running on the Unicorn.
But we switched that actually.
And it's been a really great experience.
I think we tried that a year ago, and it didn't work out quite so well.
There were some things that didn't work as expected or didn't perform great,
or Django was throwing some errors, or UVicorn was throwing some errors.
And then, apparently, all of that got fixed, because now it runs without any issue.
Great.
Yeah, for people who don't know, the vibe used to be run G Unicorn,
but then with UVicorn workers, if you're doing async stuff.
And then UVicorn kind of stepped up its game
and said, you can actually treat us as our own app server.
We will manage lifecycle and stuff.
And so that's the path you took, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Before that.
Well, no, actually, before that, we didn't
because our Django is fully synchronous.
It doesn't do any async.
So it was just bare metal unicorn.
And it's still synchronous.
We're just running it under UVicorn.
But interestingly, it's still quite a bit faster in a few cases.
We tried that out and we low-tested it in a couple of scenarios
and we found that it makes a lot of sense.
But outside of that, I do have a lot of, well,
very simplistic deployments that are also just systemd
and a couple of Docker compose files and containers
that are managed through some old coupled together Ansible things.
But I think the oldest one that I have still running is from 2017,
and it's been running without a change for like four or five years.
That is awesome.
I don't see a reason to do anything about it because the app works.
It's being used productively.
So why change anything about that?
No need to introduce.
Just don't touch it.
Yeah, I was actually looking into Coolify that you two guys mentioned.
I was thinking about maybe upgrading it to that,
but I played around with it and I thought, well, why?
It doesn't, you know, if I have to look into that deployment maybe once a year.
So that's really nothing to gain for me to make it more complicated.
Right. Awesome.
David, Team Flask.
I was trying to pull up a bunch of links really quick.
So I mentioned this before the show started,
and I think I'm pretty sure I've said this the last time I was on Talk Python,
but the projects I do for work typically have less than 100 users.
And so my deployment is usually really simple.
And usually they've chosen like Azure or AWS already.
So we just have a Docker container and we put it on the relevant Docker container host and it just works for them.
We have a Postgres database and we have like Redis.
But I never really had to deal with like scaling or that sort of stuff.
But the funny thing is, at least for my work, we're often replacing older systems.
And so even a single Docker container running a Flask application is way more performant and responsive than anything they're used to from some 20-year-old or 30-year-old Java system.
And it can just respond on a small container with a little bit of CPU and a little bit of memory.
They're always shocked at like, how much do we need to pay for?
Oh, just like it'll run a potato.
You know, there's only 100 users.
And they're like, that's a lot of users.
So my recommendation is always start small and then scale up from there.
Don't try to overthink it ahead of time.
But yeah, for my personal stuff, I'm using like Docker containers now and fly.io.
I haven't gotten to it. I do want to look into Granian and coolify, but I haven't gotten there yet.
And for the Docker container, I can definitely recommend pythonspeed.org. I don't remember off
the top of my head who writes that, but it's somebody in the Python ecosystem. And they have
a whole series of articles on how to optimize your Docker container. And that sounds really
complicated, but you end up with a Docker file that's like 20 lines long or something. It's not
there's crazy things.
It's just you have to know how to structure it.
And then I just copy and paste that to the next project.
Nice, yeah.
I resisted doing Docker for a long time because I'm like,
I don't want that extra complexity.
But then I realized, like, the stuff you put in the Docker file
is really what you just type in the terminal once,
and then you forget it.
Or type the Ansible, or, yeah, yeah.
And so, like, I'm always using Postgres, Redis,
probably if I need, like, some background tasks,
just plain SMTP server for email.
I wrote, for all three of those things,
I wrote new extensions in the Flask ecosystem
that I'm trying to get more people to know about now.
So Flask SQLAlchemy Lite, L-I-T-E,
instead of Flask SQLAlchemy,
it takes a much more lightweight approach
to integrating SQLAlchemy with Flask.
Yeah, awesome.
And then Flask Redis,
I revived from like 10 years of non-maintenance
And then I wrote this whole system, this whole pluggable email system called Email Simplified, kind of inspired by Django, Django's pluggable system.
And so there's like Flask Email Simplified to integrate that with Flask.
But unlike Django, you can use Email Simplified in any library you're writing, in any Python application you're writing.
It doesn't have to be a Flask web framework.
It's pluggable as the library itself.
And then you can also integrate it with Flask or something else.
Cool.
So Flask email simplified.
I've been doing email right now, so it needs some popularity.
Awesome.
I've been doing the non-simplified email lately,
so I'm happy to hear that there might be a better way.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think people do underappreciate just how much
performance you got out of Python web apps.
You know, they're like, oh, we're
going to need to rewrite this in something else because the gil
or whatever.
Like I decided just to make a point to pull up the tail till my log running court,
by the way.
And each one of these requests is doing like multiple DB calls and it's like 23
milliseconds, six milliseconds, three milliseconds, nine milliseconds.
It's like, that's good enough for,
that's a lot of requests per second per worker until you got to,
you got to have a lot of traffic.
Speaking of court, Phil, what's your take on this one?
I think it's very similar.
I also build Docker containers
with a Postgres database on the back end.
And I run Hypercorn as the ASCII server
and put them behind an AWS load balancer
and just run them in ECS.
And I think it's pretty simple,
but I guess it depends on your biases.
But yeah, that's all we do, really.
And it goes a long way.
There are multiple ECS tasks,
mostly because if one falls over rather than scaling,
it's usually the database that you need to scale, I find.
yeah that's how we run it
the nice thing for me about Hypercorn
is that I can play with HTTP3
so that's what we're doing at times
HTTP3 okay
I've just been getting my HTTP2 game down
so I'm already behind the game
what's the deal with HTTP3?
well I mean it's
obviously a totally new way of doing it
over UDP now rather than TCP
although at the application level
you can't tell any difference really.
But I mean, I just find it interesting.
I'm not really sure it will help too much.
And it's probably best if you've got users
who have not that great a network connection.
But for most other cases, it doesn't matter too much.
Just keep blasting packets until some of them get through.
Okay, fine.
We'll give you a page eventually.
Here's three pages actually.
All right, Sebastian.
You are running not just FastAPI from your experience,
but you're running FastAPI for a ton of people
through FastAPI Cloud at, I'm sure, many different levels.
Yeah, so this probably sounds like a shameless plug.
And it kind of is, but it's sort of expected.
I will deploy FastAPI or FastAPI Cloud.
Just because-- well, the idea is just
to make it super simple to do that.
If you are being able to run the command FastAPI run,
fast api run has like the production server that is using ubicor underneath and if you can run that
then you can run also fast api deploy and then like you know like it will most probably just work
and you know we just wrap everything and like deploy build install deploy handle https all the
stuff without needing any docker file or anything like that and i think for many use cases it's just
like simpler being able just to do that there are there are so many projects that i have been now
building, you're not a random stuff that is not really important, but now I can. And before
it was like, yeah, well, I know how to deploy this thing, like fully with like all the bells
and whistles, but it's just so much work that yeah, no later. So for that, I will end up just
like going with that. Now, if I didn't, sorry, go ahead. Well, what I was going to ask is
how much are you willing to tell us how things run inside FastAPI Cloud?
oh like it's just so much stuff i'm sure i mean you know like it's like and it's also it's fun
that you know like nowadays that they're like uh you know like we have docker and we have
to get swarm and there there was nomad and kubernetes and oh kubernetes one and then we
have the cloud providers and there's you know like aws and like google and asher and you will expect
that all these things and all this complexity is like now that it's like okay these are the clear
winner so it's like a lot of complexity to take on but like you once you do it all works but it
doesn't and it's just like so much you know like so much work to get things to work together to
work correctly and the official you know like the official resources from the different providers
and things in many cases like oh the solution is hidden in this issue somewhere in github because
the previous version was obsolete but now the new version of like this package or whatever is like
you know like it's just it's crazy but like yeah so then if i didn't have fast api cloud
uh i will probably use containers i will probably use docker if it's like something simple i will
deploy with a docker compose probably try to scale the minimum replicas i don't remember
docker compose has that i remember that docker swarm had that but then docker sort of lost
against where net is um i will put a traffic a load balancer in front to handle https and yeah
well like regular load balancing and uh yeah just regular uvicon what we were what some of the
folks we were talking about before at some point we needed to have unicorn on top of ubicorne because
ubicorne wouldn't be able to handle workers but now ubicorne can handle its workers like everything
and like handle the main thing was the zombie processes and like uh you know like ripping
the processes and like handling the stuff now it's conscious to that so you can just like run
playing ubicarn so if you are using fast api and you say fast api run that already does that so if
you're deploying on your own you can just use the fast api run command then of course you have to
deal with scaling and https and balancing like all the stuff but like you know like the core
server you can just like run it directly if going beyond that then like will probably be like some
cluster kubernetes i'm trying to scale things figure out the ways to scale things based on
the load of the requests you know like scaling automatically i having one normally one container
per process to be able to scale that more dynamically without depending on the local memory
for each one of the servers and things like that i probably saying too much but yeah actually you
If I didn't have a CPI cloud, I would probably use one of the providers that abstract those things a little bit away, you know, like render, railway, fly, like, I don't know.
I don't really think that a regular developer should be dealing with, you know, like the big hyperscalers and like Kubernetes and like all the complexity for a common app.
Most of the cases I think it's just really too much complexity to deal with.
It's kind of eye-watering to open up the AWS console or Azure or something.
Whoa.
The other day, in one of the AWS accounts, I had to change the account email.
I think I spent four hours.
I know.
Because I had to create a delegate account that has the right permissions.
often like oh no this is you know like it's sometimes it's just overwhelming the amount
of complexity that needs to be dealt with and uh yeah i mean it's it's great to really have like
you know like the uh infra people that i have working with me at the company that i can deal
with all that mess and like and make sure that everything is just running perfectly and
it just works so it's like you know like sort of uh sre as a service they work as a service for
It's like a cloud that provides the old social site research.
Yeah, that's awesome.
So I spent a number of years doing nothing but cloud migrations
to these hyperscalers for like enterprises.
And I can tell you that when you mentioned the eye-watering comment
about like the network and all that stuff,
it's so incredibly complicated now, right?
Like there's literally every kind of concept that you need to know
to deploy these enterprises now and move them from on-prem to the cloud.
So it does get incredibly complicated.
Having something simple like what Sebastian is talking about,
I think is, is, you know,
super helpful when you're just trying to get started and get something up and
running, you know, quickly.
Yeah, for sure. All right.
I've got a lot of questions and I realized that we will not be getting through
all of them. So I want to, I want to pick carefully.
So let's do, let's do this one next.
Performance. What's your best
low effort tip, not like something super complicated, but I know there's a bunch of
low hanging fruit that people maybe missed out on. And this time, let's start with Litestar.
Cody, back at you. All right. Well, so I'm going to stick to what I know, which is databases,
because I deal with that every single day. There's a couple of things that I see as like
gotchas that I constantly see over and over. One, SeqWalcom, E-Trans, kind of obfuscates
the way it's going to execute things and what kind of queries it's going to actually execute. So
it's really easy if you're not kind of fluent in how it works to create N plus one types of issues.
And so when people start talking about sync or async, it's really, in my mind, it's less of that
because you're going to spend more time waiting on the network and database and those kinds of
things, then you're going to spend serializing just generally, right? And or processing things
on the web framework. And so one, making sure that you have your relationships dialed in correctly
so that you don't have N plus one queries. The other thing is oversized connection pooling into
Postgres and just databases in general, because what people don't tend to know is that each of
those connections takes up CPU cycles and RAM of the database. And so when you slam the database
with hundreds of connections, you're just taking away processing power that can be done for other
things, right? And so you end up ultimately slowing things down. So I've seen databases that
have had so many connections that all of the CPU and all the stuff is actually doing things,
just managing connections and can't actually do any database work.
What about this socket? Is it busy? What about this socket? Is it busy? It's just round robin
that, right? Exactly. So yeah, so paying attention to the database is kind of my first kind of rule
of thumb. 100%. I like that one a lot. Yannick. Yeah, I'll throw in putting stuff or identifying
work that doesn't need to be done immediately for the user and putting in a background task.
Having a background worker defer things till later. So sending email is an example,
although there's nuances there about knowing that it's sent and everything but um yeah if you if
you if user kicks off some process and then you wait to do that process in the worker you're
holding that worker up which is more relevant in wsgi than asgi but uh and you're making them wait
for their page to load again versus record what they wanted to do send it off to the background
let them see the status of it, but let the background worker handle it.
Yeah, that's great advice.
All right, Yannick, I said, you guys, go for it.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I want to, I'm not sure if that's some sort of, it's not really a trick or a tip,
or more like, I think the most common mistake I see when I, this is ASCII specific,
but when I look at ASCII apps that people have written,
who are maybe not as familiar with ASCII or async Python at all,
is if you make something an async function,
you should be absolutely sure that it's non-blocking.
Because if you're running an ASCII app and you're blocking anywhere,
your whole application server is blocked completely.
It doesn't handle any other requests at the same time.
It's blocked fully.
And I don't think I've had any mistake more times
when I've looked through some apps that someone has written
or that I've came across somewhere.
So this is really, it's super, super common.
And it has such a big impact on the overall performance
in every metric imaginable.
So I would say,
and that's nowadays what I tell people,
unless you're 100% sure that you know what you're doing
and you know it's non-blocking,
don't make it async.
Put it in a thread, execute it in a thread, whatever.
All of the ASCII frameworks and Django
give you a lot of tools at hand
to translate your stuff from sync to async so you can still run it, do that unless you're
very sure that it actually fully supports async.
Yeah, that's good advice. Sebastian.
Hey, I'm actually going to second, Yannick. I think, yeah, like it's maybe counterintuitive
that like one of the tips of performance is to try to not optimize that much performance at the
beginning you know like async the idea with async is like oh you can get so much performance and
throughput in terms of accuracy whatever but the thing is in most of the cases uh you know like
until apps grow so large they actually don't need that much extra throughput that much extra
performance and in a framework like you know like as janet was saying well in my case i know fast
api but like you know like also many others if you define the function with async it's going to be
run async if you define it non-async and regular depth it's going to be run on a thread worker
automatically so it's just going to do the smart thing automatically so it's like fair you know
like it's going to be good enough and then you can just start with that and just keep blocking
code everywhere you know like just not use async until you actually know that you really need to
use async and once you do you have to be as you know like 100 sure that you are not running blocking
code inside of it and if you need to run blocking code inside of async code then make sure that you
are sending it through to a thread worker sending it through to a thread worker sounds uh down thing
but yeah like you know like django has tools any io has tools i also built something on top of any
iog all the sinker that is just to simplify these things to asyncify a blocking function
keeping all the type information so you get out of completion and inline errors and everything
even though it's actually doing all the stuff of sending the thing to the to the thread worker so
the goal is super simple you keep very simple code but then in there underneath it's just like doing
all the stuff that should be doing but you know like that's normally when you actually need to
hyper optimize things in most of the cases you can just start with just not using async at first
also now that you're gonna have python multi-threaded then suddenly you're gonna have
just so much more performance out of the blue without even having to do much more so yeah yeah
actually that's you know like sorry i kept speaking so much but the here's a tip for
improving performance uh upgrade your patient python version i was just chatting today with savannah
she was adding the benchmarks to the you know like python benchmark the python the official
python bearing benchmarks that they run for the c python faster the faster c python program and
the change from Python 3.10 to Python 3.14 when running FastAPI is like almost double the
performance or something like that. It was like, it was crazy. It was just crazy improvement in
performance. So you can just upgrade your Python version, you're going to get so much better
performance. That's an awesome piece of advice that I think is often overlooked. And it's not
Not only CPU speed, it's also memory gets a lot lower.
Whoever's going to jump in, go ahead.
Oh, yeah.
Last year, I was looking at Markup Safe, which is an HTML escaping library that we use.
And it has a C extension for speedups.
And I almost convinced myself that I can stop maintaining the C extension because just Python itself got way faster.
But then it turned out that I could do something to the C extension to make it faster also.
But just the fact that I almost convinced myself, like, oh, I can drop a C extension for just a Python upgrade instead was pretty impressive.
Yeah, that's really cool.
Especially with, like, string handling, you know, which you're going to use for templating for web apps.
Phil?
Yeah, well, I definitely echo looking at your DB queries, because by far and large, that's always where our performance issues have been.
it's either badly written query or we're returning most of the database when the user just wants
to know about one thing or something silly like that. But I was thinking about low hanging ones,
which I think you asked about. So I'd say uv loop, which is still a noticeable improvement.
And also because I think it's likely a lot of us are returning JSON, often changing the
JSON serializer to one of the faster ones can be noticeable as well and obviously quite easy to do.
So yeah, that's really good advice.
I didn't think about the JSON serializer.
What one do you recommend?
I think is it you, JSON, or is it all JSON?
I can't remember which one was different.
Yeah, yeah.
Replace it.
But yeah, if you look at the Tech Empower benchmarks,
everyone's changing their JSON serializer
to get that bit extra speed.
It's--
Yeah, you're like, our framework looks
bad because our JSON serializer is like third
of the performance.
Yeah.
We changed, well, David added a JSON provider to Flask,
and yeah, you could see it make a difference
in the tech and power benchmarks, so that was really good.
Oh, interesting.
Yeah, cool.
Yeah, it's pluggable now,
but if you're not installing Flask or JSON,
I mean, I don't know what other JSON library
you'd be using at this point,
unless you're already using one,
but or JSON is very, very fast.
Okay, this is something I'm going to be looking into later.
So over to Django, Jeff,
David talked about running stuff in the background and I said Django five or
Django six that got the background task thing.
Yeah.
Django six,
which just came out a couple of weeks ago and I'll hand that off to Carlton in
a second.
Cause I think,
um,
problems had more to do with the actual plumbing,
uh,
being on the steering council.
Uh,
my advice to people is the best way to scale something is just to not do it,
avoid the process completely.
So like I mentioned the CDN earlier,
it's content heavy science,
cash the crap out of stuff.
Um,
it doesn't even have to hit your servers.
you can go a lot,
as we mentioned earlier too,
just by doubling the amount of resources a project has.
Django is pretty efficient these days,
especially with async views.
Like everybody else has said too,
any blocking code, move off to threads,
move off to a background queue.
Django Q2 is my favorite one to use
because you can use a database.
So for those little side projects
where you just want to run one or two processes,
you can use it.
It works great.
And Carlton, if you want to talk about Django internals.
Yeah, okay.
So the new task framework I just mentioned,
the main sort of bit about it is that it's, again,
this pluggable Django API.
So it gives a standard task API.
So if you're writing a third-party library,
and you need to send an email in,
it's the canonical example, right?
You need to send an email in your third-party library
before you'd have had to tie yourself
to a specific queue implementation,
whereas now Django's providing a kind of,
like an ORM of tasks.
Right, right.
You got to do Redis, you got to do Celery,
and you got to manage things and all that.
You don't have to pick that now as the third-party package author.
You can just say, right, just wrap this as a Django task and queue it.
And then the developer, when they come to choose their backend,
if they want to use Celery or they want to use Django Q2
or they want to use the Django task backend,
which Jake Howard, who wrote this for Django provided as well,
you can just plug that in.
So it's a pluggable interface for tasks,
which is, I think, the really nice thing about it.
In terms of quick wins, everybody's mentioned almost all of mine.
Cody and Phil, they mentioned the database.
That's the big one.
Django, the ORM, because it does lazy related lookups,
it's very easy to trigger M plus one where a book has multiple authors
and suddenly you're iterating through the books
and you're iterating through the authors and it's a lookup.
So you need to do things like prefetch related, select related.
You need to just check that you've got those.
Django debug toolbars are a great thing to run in development
where you can see the queries and it'll tell you
where you've got the duplicates.
Then the slightly bigger one is to just check your indexes.
The ORM will create the right indexes
if you're going through primary keys or unique fields,
but sometimes you're doing a filter on some field,
and then there's not the right index there,
and that can really slow you down.
Again, you can do the SQL explain on that and find that.
Then the thing I was going to say originally was caching.
Get a Redis instance, stick it next to your Django app,
and as Jeff said, don't do the work.
If you're continually rendering the same page
and it never changes,
cache it and pull it from the cache
rather than rendering.
Because template,
DB queries are one of your biggest things.
The second one's always going to be serialization.
That's either serialization or template rendering.
So if you can avoid that by caching,
you can save an awful lot of time on your requests.
Yeah.
I was wondering if somebody would come back
with database indexes
because that's like a 100x multiplier for free almost.
It's such a big deal.
It really can be.
If you're making a particular query
and it's doing a full table scan
and all of a sudden you put the index in,
it's instant.
It's like, oh, wow.
And you don't have to be a DBA
or master information architect sort of thing.
I don't know about Postgres.
I'm sure it has it.
Somebody can tell me.
But with Mongo, you can turn on in the database,
I want you to log all slow queries
and slow for me means 20 millisecond or whatever.
Like you put a number in
and then you run your app for a while
and you go look at what's slow, sort by slowest.
And then you can see, well, maybe that needs an index, right?
Like just let your app tell you what you got to do.
Yeah, there is a post.
I'm just trying to see if I can quickly look it up now.
There's a Postgres extension,
which will automatically run explain on the slow queries
and log them for you.
Nice. There you go.
It's PG stat statements, I think, is what we're thinking about.
Right, okay.
Awesome.
If you're unsure about your database indexes, do this,
or at least go back and review your queries.
Yeah, I agree.
Very good.
All right, I can see we're blazing through these questions.
I have one other.
Yeah, please go ahead.
Yeah, go ahead, David.
If you want to get some more responsive parts of your website,
like make your website a little more responsive or interactive
with the user, htmx or datastar, especially
like if you're using court or another ASGI,
where you can do SSE, server-send events, or WebSockets.
Streaming little bits of changes to the web front end
and then rendering them with the same HTML you're already
writing can make things a lot more responsive.
We had a talk about that from Chris May at FlaskCon last year,
which you can find on YouTube.
Awesome.
You know, this is not one of the questions,
But let me just start out for a quick riff on this, folks.
Out in the audience, someone was asking, what about HTMX?
And I think more broadly, I am actually
a huge fan of server-side-based, template-based apps.
I think it just keeps things simpler in a lot of ways,
unless you need a lot of interactivity.
But things like HTMX or a little bit of JavaScript
can reduce a lot of the traffic and stuff.
Where do people land on those kinds of things?
I absolutely love, love HTML.
Not, not just because you don't have to write a lot of JavaScript or whatever, but mostly
because if, if, if I'm just building a simple app that needs a bit more than just be a static
HTML page, it needs some interactivity, a little bit of reactivity.
I feel like having the whole overhead of building an SPA or whatever tools you need for the
whole JavaScript, TypeScript, whatever stack.
It's just so much work to get a little bit,
to make a simple thing a little bit nicer,
a little bit more reactive.
And I feel like HTMX just fits right in there.
It's super great.
I've got a couple of things with it now,
a few of my own projects, a few things that work.
And it makes things so much easier where,
I don't know, the work probably wouldn't have been done
if it was just, you know, because it's too much.
if you're doing a whole front end thing that you have then to deploy and build and whatever,
or it would have been less nice. So it's an amazing, really amazing thing.
As the maintainer and author, though, one of the things that is, well, it's not frustrating,
but it's understandable is that HTMX is not for everybody, right? There's not like it's,
you can't use HTMX in all occasions or Datastar, right?
And so there are people that are always going to want to use React
and there's going to be people that want to use all these other frameworks.
And so having some cohesive way to make them all talk together,
I think is important.
I don't have that answer yet, but I just know that like,
I can't always say HTMX is it, right?
And then you'll have a great time because I'll inevitably meet somebody
that says I need to do this and it's right.
And it's in a single page application or something is more appropriate for that.
And so, you know, it's obviously the right tool for the right job when you need it.
But, you know, I want to make something that is cohesive depending on whatever library you want to use.
I would throw one thing in there, though.
I would rather somebody start with HTMLX than I would start with React if you don't need it.
Because React can be total overkill.
It can be great for some applications.
But oftentimes, a consultant will see people like having an About page and they throw a React at it.
It's like, why do you need that?
Like, especially for small things with partials.
You mean you don't want to start with Angular?
You know, it's fine if you need it, but I don't think you really need it.
Like, introduce tools as you need them.
Django60 just added template partials, and I guess my job here is to hand off to Carlton, because this is his feature.
Yeah, I was having to see that come in there, Carlton. Nice job.
No, it's okay. Plug the new feature.
So, I mean, I stepped down as a fellow in 2023 into a new business,
and I read the essay about template fragments on the HTMLX website,
where it's named reusable bits in the templates.
And I was like, I need that.
So I built Django template partials,
released it as a third-party package,
and it's now just been merged into core for Django 6.0.
And I have to say about HTML,
it's really changed the way I write websites.
Before I was the fellow,
I used to write mobile applications
and do the front end of the mobile application,
then the back end in Django using Django REST framework.
And that's how I got into open source
was via Django REST framework.
And since starting the new application, we're three years in.
We've hardly got a JSON endpoint in sight.
It's like two, three, four of them in the whole application.
And it's just a delight.
Again, you asked me at the beginning, Michael, am I having fun?
Yeah, I really am having fun.
And HTMX is the reason.
I do grant there are these use cases where it's not right, but go for it.
Awesome.
All right, let's talk about our last topic.
And we have five minutes-ish to do that.
So we got to stay on target quick.
But let's just go around real quick here.
We talked about upgrading the Python version,
getting better performance out of it.
I mentioned the lower memory side.
But I think one of the under-appreciated aspects
of this--
the Instagram team did a huge talk keynote on it a while ago--
is the memory that you run into when you start to scale out
your stuff on the server.
Because you're like, oh, I want to have four workers
so I can have more concurrency because of the gills.
So now you've got four copies of everything
that you cache in memory and just like the runtime.
And now you need eight gigs instead of what would have been
one or who knows, right?
But with free threaded Python coming on,
which I've seen a couple of comments in the chat like, hey,
tell us about this.
we could have true concurrency and we wouldn't need to scale as much on the process side, I think,
giving us both better performance and the ability to say, well, you actually have four times less
memory, so you could run smaller servers or whatever. What's the free threaded story for
all the frameworks? Carlton, let's go back to you for doing reverse. I'm really excited about it. I
don't know how it's going to play out, but I'm really excited about it. All it can do is help
django um you know the async story in django is nice and mature now uh but still most of it's
sync like you know you're still going to default the sync you're still going to write your sync
views you still got template rendering you know django's template template based kind of framework
really you're still gonna want you're still gonna want to run things synchronously concurrently and
proper threads are going to be yeah they can't but help i don't i don't know how it's going to roll
out i'll let someone else go because i'm getting well yeah i just like elaborated that for people
out there uh before we move on is you could set up your worker process to say i want you to actually
run eight threads in this one worker process and when multiple requests come in they could both be
sent off to the same worker to be processed and that allows that worker to do more unless the gill
comes along and says, stop, you only get to do one thing in threads in Python. And all of a sudden,
a lot of that falls down. This basically uncorks that and makes that easy all of a sudden. Even if
you yourself are not writing async, your server can be more async. Yeah. And this is the thing
that we found with ASCII is that you dispatch to a, you know, using to async or you dispatch it to
a thread, a threadable executor, but Python doesn't run that concurrently. And so it's like,
in parallel. So it's like, ah, it doesn't actually go as fast as you want it to. And so you end up
wanting multiple processes still. Yeah. All right. Let's keep it with Django. Jeff, what do you think?
I'm going to defer to the others on this. I have the least thoughts.
All right. Write down the stack, Sebastian. Write down the video, not website, web framework.
I think it's going to be awesome. This is going to help so much, so many things.
The challenge is going to be third-party libraries used by each individual application and if they are compatible or not.
That's where the challenge is going to be.
But other than that, it's just going to be free extra performance for everyone.
Just, you know, like just upgrading the version of Python.
So that's going to be awesome.
Cody.
Yeah, I'm going to echo what Sebastian just said.
The third-party libraries, I think, are going to be the big kind of sticky point here.
I'm looking forward to seeing what we can do.
I'm going to kind of hold my thoughts and let Janik kind of speak a little bit on it
because I know that he's looked at message specs specifically
and some of the other things that might, you know,
give some better context here.
But yes, the third-party libraries are going to be the kind of the sticky issue,
but I'm looking forward to seeing what we can, you know, make happen.
Well, I'm super excited actually specifically about async stuff
because for most of the time it was like, you know,
So if you can already saturate your CPU, you know, async doesn't help you much.
Well, now, if you have proper threads, you can actually do that in async as well.
And I think it's going to speed up a lot of applications just by default,
because almost all async applications out there use threads in some capacity,
because, well, most of the things aren't async by nature.
So they will use a thread pool
and it will run more concurrently.
And so that's going to be better.
But I'm also a bit scared about a few things
that mainly, as a few others have said now,
third-party libraries extension,
specifically those that are Python C extensions.
We just recently, I think like three weeks ago, also got a msgspec released for Python 3.14 and proper free threading support.
And that took a lot of work.
Unfortunately, a few of the CPython core devs chimed in and contributed three hours and helped out with that.
And all around the ecosystem, the last few years, there's been a lot of work going on.
But especially for more niche libraries that are still here and there,
I think there's still a lot to do and possibly also quite a few bugs lurking here and there
that haven't been found or are really hard to track down.
And I'm curious and a bit maybe scarce, too hard of a word.
It's going to be a little bit of a bumpy ride as people turn that on
and then the reality of what's happening.
However, I want to take Cody's warning and turn it on its head
about these third-party libraries,
because I think it's also an opportunity for regular Python developers
who are not async fanatics to actually capture some of that capability.
Say if some library says,
hey, I realize that if we actually implement this lower-level thing,
you don't actually see the implementation of in true
threading, and then you use it.
But you don't actually do threading.
You just call even a blocking function.
You might get a huge performance boost,
a little bit like David was talking about with markup safe.
And you could just all of a sudden,
with doing nothing with your code,
goes five times faster on an eight-core machine
or something in little places where it used to matter.
Yeah, I'm super excited for what--
We currently be focused on the things that are out there right now
and that might need to be updated,
but I'm super excited for what else might come of this, right?
New things that will be developed
or stuff that we are currently not thinking about
or that hadn't been considered for the past 30 years or so
because it wasn't feasible or wasn't possible
or didn't make sense at all.
And now, yeah, I think it would pay off, definitely.
All right, Team Flask, you guys got the final word.
Okay, Phil, do you want to go first?
Sure, I can, yeah.
I think it would probably be more advantageous to Whiskey apps
than it will for ASCII apps.
And when I've been playing with it,
it's mostly on the Whiskey Flask side,
where I'm quite excited about it.
At the same time, like the others, I'm a bit worried
because it's not clear to me, for example,
that green threading is going to work that well with free threading.
And that may have been fixed, but I don't think it has yet.
And that might then break a lot of whiskey apps.
So next, I think.
But yeah, very excited for Flask in particular.
Thanks for bringing up green threading.
I added that to my notes right now.
So Flask already has emphasized for years and years and years
don't store stuff globally, don't have global state,
bind stuff to the request response cycle if you need to store stuff,
look stuff up from a cache otherwise.
And my impression is that that emphasis is pretty successful.
I don't think there's any well-known extensions using like global state
or anything like that.
It's helped that the dev server that we have is threaded by default.
Like it's not going for performance, obviously.
It's just running on your local machine,
but it's already running in a threaded environment,
running your application in a threaded environment,
not a process-based one by default.
I don't know if anybody even knows
that you can run the dev server as process-based.
And we also already had for a decade or more than decade,
G event to enable the exact same thing
that free threading is enabling for Flask,
which is concurrent work and connections.
And so plenty of applications are already deployed that way
using Geovent to do what kind of ASCII is enabling.
I've run all the test suites with pytest FreeThreaded,
which checks that your tests can run concurrently
in the FreeThreaded builds.
So go check that out by Anthony Shaw.
And I'm pretty sure Granian already supports FreeThreading.
I'm not sure, though.
I haven't looked into Granian enough.
You know, I'm not sure either.
It does have a runtime threaded mode,
but I don't know if that's truly free threaded or not.
Yeah, but all of those things combined
make me pretty optimistic that Flask
will be able to take advantage of this
without much work from us.
I mean, I know that's a big statement right there.
I haven't tested it,
but the fact that we've emphasized
all these different parts for so long already
makes me confident about it.
Yeah, awesome.
I'm also super excited about it.
And just one final thought I'll throw out there
before we call it a show, because we could go on for much longer,
but we're out of time.
I think once this comes along, whatever framework out
of this choice you're using out there,
there's a bunch of inner working pieces.
One of them may have some kind of issue.
And I think it's worth doing some proper load testing on your app.
You know, point something like locus.io at it and just say,
well, what if we gave it 10,000 concurrent users for an hour?
Does it stop working?
Does it crash or does it just keep going?
You're like, it's a pretty good thing
to do the first time before you deploy your first free
threaded version.
Yeah.
All right, everyone.
I would love to talk some more.
This is such a good conversation, but I also
want to respect your time and all that.
So thank you for being here.
It's been an honor to get you all together
and have this conversation.
Thank you very much for having us all.
Thanks, everybody.
Nice being here.
Yeah, thanks for having us.
Thanks for having us.
Bye.